markdown/wiki/getting_started/INSTALL.md, before:

# Installing the launcher

## Android
Instructions for installing Amethyst on Android devices.

::: details GitHub Actions
If you want the latest and greatest to test before the official release, you can grab a copy from GitHub Actions.

**Using nightly.link:**
1. Download the [Latest Artifact](https://nightly.link/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-Android/workflows/android/v3_openjdk/app-debug.zip) using this link.
2. Install as any usual .apk

**Using Github (requires an account):**

1. Start off by heading to the [Amethyst](https://https://github.com/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-Android) repository and switching to the "Actions" tab.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL1.png)

2. Next, select "Android CI" in the workflow selection menu.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL2.png)

3. Choose a build with a green or blue checkmark next to the branch you want to download.
    - `v3_openjdk` will be the one for most people.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL3.png)

4. Under "Artifacts", choose the build type you wish to download.
    - `app-debug` will be the one for most people.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL4.png)

5. Install as any usual .apk
:::

::: details Source
**Instructions coming in a future revision to this website.**
:::

::: details Google Play
Google Play is currently unavailable. Sorry! Try one of the methods above!
:::

## iOS
Instructions for installing Amethyst on Apple devices.

::: details Sideloading (TrollStore)
We recommend TrollStore for all users if possible. This method allows for automatic JIT enabling, more memory allocation, and non-revoking installs.

Note: **Enable URL Schemes in TrollStore settings: TrollStore -> Settings -> Scroll Down -> Enable URLScheme > Rebuild Icons Cache**

### TrollStore compatibility depends on whether your iDevice is arm64 (A8-A11) or arm64e (A12+/M1+)

   #### For arm64, TrollStore is compatible with the following iOS versions:
  
    - 14.0 to 16.6.1
    - 17.0 
	- 16.7 to 16.7.10 (*)
 	- 17.0.1 to 17.7 (*)
  	- 18.0 to 18.1.1 (*)
    - 18.2 (*)

 (*) - requires arm64 iDevice jailbroken with [Palera1n](https://ios.cfw.guide/installing-palera1n)
  
   #### For arm64e, TrollStore is compatible with the following iOS versions:
  
    - 14.0 to 16.6.1
    - 17.0
    - 16.7 RC (20H18)

1. Follow these steps to install [TrollStore](https://ios.cfw.guide/installing-trollstore/).
 
2. Download the latest developer build from [here](https://nightly.link/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-iOS/workflows/development/main/org.angelauramc.amethyst-ios.ipa.zip). Expect to encounter bugs!

3. Locate where the .ipa was downloaded, tap the Share icon, and choose TrollStore in the list of options available.

You can now enjoy Minecraft: Java Edition on your iDevice!
:::
::: warning
 Everything below are outdated instructions. Please avoid using them.
:::
<!-- TODO: fix the rest of IOS i am not touching sidestore shit :sob: -->
::: details Sideloading (Jailed)
**Requires an active Apple ID, that has signed into the [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/account).**

PojavLauncher supports being sideloaded with AltStore and SideStore. Instructions to use SideStore are below--for other options, refer to their documentation.

1. Follow the official guide on installing AltStore itself:
    - Instructions for [Mac](https://docs.sidestore.io/docs/getting-started/mac) and [Windows](https://docs.sidestore.io/docs/getting-started/windows)
    
2. Install the latest release using this [Install with SideStore](sidestore://install?url=https://github.com/PojavLauncherTeam/PojavLauncher_iOS/releases/latest/download/net.kdt.pojavlauncher.ipa) button.
    - For a specific release, you can find its button on the [Releases](https://github.com/PojavLauncherTeam/PojavLauncher_iOS/releases) page

Installing PojavLauncher is not the end for Jailed iOS devices. In order to play Minecraft itself, you will need to [enable JIT](../faq/ios/JIT.md).
:::

::: details Sideloading (Jailbroken)
**Currently, AppSync Unified is not supported.** There is an [issue](https://github.com/akemin-dayo/AppSync/issues/108) regarding the data directory when installed with AppSync.

You can follow the `Sideloading (TrollStore)` or `Sideloading (Jailed)` steps to sideload on a jailbroken iDevice. Regardless of the method, you will benefit from automatic JIT enabling and more memory allocation.
:::

::: details GitHub Actions
**Requires a GitHub account in order to download.**

If you want the latest and greatest to test before the official release, you can grab a copy from GitHub Actions.

1. Start off by heading to the [PojavLauncher iOS](https://github.com/PojavLauncherTeam/PojavLauncher_iOS) repository and switching to the "Actions" tab.

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL1.png)

2. Next, select "Development Build" in the workflow selection menu.

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL2.png)

3. Choose a build with a green or blue checkmark next to the branch you want to download.
    - `main` will be the one for most people.

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL3.png)

4. Under "Artifacts", choose `net.kdt.pojavlauncher.ipa`

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL4.png)

Once you have an Actions build downloaded, you can now unzip the file and use this .ipa for TrollStore or sideloading.
:::

::: details Source
**Instructions coming in a future revision to this website.**
:::

Commit message:

Revise iOS installation instructions for Amethyst
Updated installation instructions for Amethyst on iOS, clarifying the use of TrollStore and SideStore, and correcting references from PojavLauncher to Amethyst.

Signed-off-by: CelloSerenity <195480169+CelloSerenity@users.noreply.github.com>

markdown/wiki/getting_started/INSTALL.md, after:

# Installing the launcher

## Android
Instructions for installing Amethyst on Android devices.

::: details GitHub Actions
If you want the latest and greatest to test before the official release, you can grab a copy from GitHub Actions.

**Using nightly.link:**
1. Download the [Latest Artifact](https://nightly.link/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-Android/workflows/android/v3_openjdk/app-debug.zip) using this link.
2. Install as any usual .apk

**Using Github (requires an account):**

1. Start off by heading to the [Amethyst](https://https://github.com/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-Android) repository and switching to the "Actions" tab.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL1.png)

2. Next, select "Android CI" in the workflow selection menu.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL2.png)

3. Choose a build with a green or blue checkmark next to the branch you want to download.
    - `v3_openjdk` will be the one for most people.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL3.png)

4. Under "Artifacts", choose the build type you wish to download.
    - `app-debug` will be the one for most people.

![](./images/INSTALL/android/INSTALL4.png)

5. Install as any usual .apk
:::

::: details Source
**Instructions coming in a future revision to this website.**
:::

::: details Google Play
Google Play is currently unavailable. Sorry! Try one of the methods above!
:::

## iOS
Instructions for installing Amethyst on Apple devices.

::: details Sideloading (TrollStore)
We recommend TrollStore for all users if possible. This method allows for automatic JIT enabling, more memory allocation, and non-revoking installs. If your device/iOS version doesn't support TrollStore, go to "Sideloading (Jailed)".

Note: **Enable URL Schemes in TrollStore settings: TrollStore -> Settings -> Scroll Down -> Enable URLScheme > Rebuild Icons Cache**

### TrollStore compatibility depends on whether your iDevice is arm64 (A8-A11) or arm64e (A12+/M1+)

   #### For arm64, TrollStore is compatible with the following iOS versions:
  
    - 14.0 to 16.6.1
    - 17.0 
	- 16.7 to 16.7.10 (*)
 	- 17.0.1 to 17.7 (*)
  	- 18.0 to 18.1.1 (*)
    - 18.2 (*)

 (*) - requires arm64 iDevice jailbroken with [Palera1n](https://ios.cfw.guide/installing-palera1n)
  
   #### For arm64e, TrollStore is compatible with the following iOS versions:
  
    - 14.0 to 16.6.1
    - 17.0
    - 16.7 RC (20H18)

1. Follow these steps to install [TrollStore](https://ios.cfw.guide/installing-trollstore/).
 
2. Download the latest developer build from [here](https://nightly.link/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-iOS/workflows/development/main/org.angelauramc.amethyst-ios.ipa.zip). Expect to encounter bugs!

3. Locate where the .ipa was downloaded, tap the Share icon, and choose TrollStore in the list of options available.

You can now enjoy Minecraft: Java Edition on your iDevice!

::: details Sideloading (Jailed)
**Requires an active Apple ID, that has signed into the [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/account).**

Amethyst supports being sideloaded with AltStore and SideStore. Instructions to use SideStore are below--for other options, refer to their documentation.

1. Follow the official guide on installing SideStore itself (requies the one-time use of a computer):
    - [SideStore Documentation](https://docs.sidestore.io/docs/installation/prerequisites).
  
2. Download the latest developer build from [here](https://nightly.link/AngelAuraMC/Amethyst-iOS/workflows/development/main/org.angelauramc.amethyst-ios.ipa.zip). Expect to encounter bugs! Install it via SideStore using the "+" button on the "Apps" page. 

3. GetMoreRam increases the memory limit imposed by iOS/iPadOS on sideloaded apps, and is required for Amethyst. Download GetMoreRam [here](https://github.com/hugeBlack/GetMoreRam/releases/download/nightly/Entitlement.ipa) . Install Entitlement.ipa via SideStore. Open GetMoreRam, navigate to Settings and select "Sign In". Use your Apple Account credentials to log in. If the app crashes, just try again. Navigate to "App IDs" and select "Refresh". Select the App ID including "amethyst", then select "Add Increased Memory Limit". If a bunch of text appears underneath with no mention of an error, you did it correctly. Now, you can delete Get More Ram.

4. Resideload the Amethyst .ipa via SideStore (you don't need to delete it first) so the memory entitlement takes effect. (Note: If your Amethyst expires you will need to repeat this step).

Installing Amethyst is not the end for Jailed iOS devices. In order to play Minecraft itself, you will need to [enable JIT](../faq/ios/JIT.md).
:::

:::
::: warning
 Everything below are outdated instructions. Please avoid using them.
:::
<!-- TODO: fix the rest of iOS -->


::: details Sideloading (Jailbroken)
**Currently, AppSync Unified is not supported.** There is an [issue](https://github.com/akemin-dayo/AppSync/issues/108) regarding the data directory when installed with AppSync.

You can follow the `Sideloading (TrollStore)` or `Sideloading (Jailed)` steps to sideload on a jailbroken iDevice. Regardless of the method, you will benefit from automatic JIT enabling and more memory allocation.
:::

::: details GitHub Actions
**Requires a GitHub account in order to download.**

If you want the latest and greatest to test before the official release, you can grab a copy from GitHub Actions.

1. Start off by heading to the [PojavLauncher iOS](https://github.com/PojavLauncherTeam/PojavLauncher_iOS) repository and switching to the "Actions" tab.

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL1.png)

2. Next, select "Development Build" in the workflow selection menu.

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL2.png)

3. Choose a build with a green or blue checkmark next to the branch you want to download.
    - `main` will be the one for most people.

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL3.png)

4. Under "Artifacts", choose `net.kdt.pojavlauncher.ipa`

![](./images/INSTALL/ios/INSTALL4.png)

Once you have an Actions build downloaded, you can now unzip the file and use this .ipa for TrollStore or sideloading.
:::

::: details Source
**Instructions coming in a future revision to this website.**
:::
